THE TIGER

Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Could frame thy fearful symmetry?

In what distant deeps or skies
Burnt the fire of thine eyes?
On what wings dare he aspire?
What the hand dare seize the fire?

And what shoulder and what art
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
And, when thy heart began to beat,
What dread hand and what dread feet?

What the hammer? what the chain?
In what furnace was thy brain?
What the anvil? what dread grasp
Dare its deadly terrors clasp?

When the stars threw down their spears,
And watered heaven with their tears,
Did He smile His work to see?
Did He who made the lamb make thee?

Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?

MY PRETTY ROSE TREE

A flower was offered to me,
   Such a flower as May never bore;
But I said, ‘I’ve a pretty rose tree,’
   And I passed the sweet flower o’er.

Then I went to my pretty rose tree,
   To tend her by day and by night;
But my rose turned away with jealousy,
   And her thorns were my only delight.

THE GARDEN OF LOVE


I went to the Garden of Love,
   And saw what I never had seen;
A Chapel was built in the midst,
   Where I used to play on the green.

And the gates of this Chapel were shut,
   And ‘Thou shalt not’ writ over the door;
So I turned to the Garden of Love
   That so many sweet flowers bore.

And I saw it was filled with graves,
   And tombstones where flowers should be;
And priests in black gowns were walking their rounds,
   And binding with briars my joys and desires.

One Hundred Love Sonnets: XVII

I don’t love you as if you were a rose of salt, topaz,   
or arrow of carnations that propagate fire:   
I love you as one loves certain obscure things,   
secretly, between the shadow and the soul.

I love you as the plant that doesn’t bloom but carries   
the light of those flowers, hidden, within itself,   
and thanks to your love the tight aroma that arose   
from the earth lives dimly in my body.

I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where,   
I love you directly without problems or pride:
I love you like this because I don’t know any other way to love,
except in this form in which I am not nor are you,   
so close that your hand upon my chest is mine,   
so close that your eyes close with my dreams.

Bird-Understander

Of many reasons I love you here is one

the way you write me from the gate at the airport
so I can tell you everything will be alright

so you can tell me there is a bird
trapped in the terminal      all the people
ignoring it       because they do not know
what to do with it       except to leave it alone
until it scares itself to death

it makes you terribly terribly sad

You wish you could take the bird outside
and set it free or       (failing that)
call a bird-understander
to come help the bird

All you can do is notice the bird
and feel for the bird       and write
to tell me how language feels
impossibly useless

but you are wrong

You are a bird-understander
better than I could ever be
who make so many noises
and call them song

These are your own words
your way of noticing
and saying plainly
of not turning away
from hurt

you have offered them
to me       I am only
giving them back

if only I could show you
how very useless
they are not

The Sun Rising

Busy old fool, unruly sun,
               Why dost thou thus,
Through windows, and through curtains call on us?
Must to thy motions lovers' seasons run?
               Saucy pedantic wretch, go chide
               Late school boys and sour prentices,
         Go tell court huntsmen that the king will ride,
         Call country ants to harvest offices,
Love, all alike, no season knows nor clime,
Nor hours, days, months, which are the rags of time.

               Thy beams, so reverend and strong
               Why shouldst thou think?
I could eclipse and cloud them with a wink,
But that I would not lose her sight so long;
               If her eyes have not blinded thine,
               Look, and tomorrow late, tell me,
         Whether both th' Indias of spice and mine
         Be where thou leftst them, or lie here with me.
Ask for those kings whom thou saw'st yesterday,
And thou shalt hear, All here in one bed lay.

               She's all states, and all princes, I,
               Nothing else is.
Princes do but play us; compared to this,
All honor's mimic, all wealth alchemy.
               Thou, sun, art half as happy as we,
               In that the world's contracted thus.
         Thine age asks ease, and since thy duties be
         To warm the world, that's done in warming us.
Shine here to us, and thou art everywhere;
This bed thy center is, these walls, thy sphere.

Sonnet 40: Take all my loves, my love, yea, take them all

Take all my loves, my love, yea, take them all:
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call—
All mine was thine before thou hadst this more.
Then if for my love thou my love receivest,
I cannot blame thee for my love thou usest;
But yet be blamed if thou this self deceivest
By wilful taste of what thyself refusest.
I do forgive thy robb’ry, gentle thief,
Although thou steal thee all my poverty;
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love’s wrong than hate’s known injury.
    Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
    Kill me with spites, yet we must not be foes.

Sonnet 65: Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea

Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea
But sad mortality o’er-sways their power,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
O, how shall summer’s honey breath hold out
Against the wrackful siege of batt’ring days,
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
Nor gates of steel so strong, but time decays?
O fearful meditation! where, alack,
Shall time’s best jewel from time’s chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
   O, none, unless this miracle have might,
   That in black ink my love may still shine bright.

Song: to Celia

Drink to me only with thine eyes,
         And I will pledge with mine;
Or leave a kiss but in the cup,
         And I’ll not look for wine.
The thirst that from the soul doth rise
         Doth ask a drink divine;
But might I of Jove’s nectar sup,
         I would not change for thine.

I sent thee late a rosy wreath,
         Not so much honouring thee
As giving it a hope, that there
         It could not withered be.
But thou thereon didst only breathe,
         And sent’st it back to me;
Since when it grows, and smells, I swear,
         Not of itself, but thee.

Poem for My Love

How do we come to be here next to each other   
in the night
Where are the stars that show us to our love   
inevitable
Outside the leaves flame usual in darkness   
and the rain
falls cool and blessed on the holy flesh   
the black men waiting on the corner for   
a womanly mirage
I am amazed by peace
It is this possibility of you
asleep
and breathing in the quiet air

I Love You

I love your lips when they’re wet with wine
And red with a wild desire;
I love your eyes when the lovelight lies
Lit with a passionate fire.
I love your arms when the warm white flesh
Touches mine in a fond embrace;
I love your hair when the strands enmesh
Your kisses against my face.

Not for me the cold, calm kiss
Of a virgin’s bloodless love;
Not for me the saint’s white bliss,
Nor the heart of a spotless dove.
But give me the love that so freely gives
And laughs at the whole world’s blame,
With your body so young and warm in my arms,
It sets my poor heart aflame.

So kiss me sweet with your warm wet mouth,
Still fragrant with ruby wine,
And say with a fervor born of the South
That your body and soul are mine.
Clasp me close in your warm young arms,
While the pale stars shine above,
And we’ll live our whole young lives away
In the joys of a living love.

A Glimpse

A glimpse through an interstice caught,
Of a crowd of workmen and drivers in a bar-room around the stove late of a winter night, and I unremark’d seated in a corner,
Of a youth who loves me and whom I love, silently approaching and seating himself near, that he may hold me by the hand,
A long while amid the noises of coming and going, of drinking and oath and smutty jest,
There we two, content, happy in being together, speaking little, perhaps not a word.

Recitative

Every night, we couldn’t sleep.
Our upstairs neighbors had to keep
Dropping something down the hall—
A barbell or a bowling ball,

And from the window by the bed,
Echoing inside my head,
Alley cats expended breath
In arias of love and death.

Dawn again, across the street,
Jackhammers began to beat
Like hangovers, and you would frown—
That well-built house, why tear it down?

Noon, the radiator grill
Groaned, gave off a lesser chill
So that we could take off our coats.
The pipes coughed to clear their throats.

Our nerves were frayed like ravelled sleeves,
We cherished each our minor griefs
To keep them warm until the night,
When it was time again to fight;

But we were young, did not need much
To make us laugh instead, and touch,
And could not hear ourselves above
The arias of death and love.

I loved you first: but afterwards your love

I loved you first: but afterwards your love
Outsoaring mine, sang such a loftier song
As drowned the friendly cooings of my dove.
Which owes the other most? my love was long,
And yours one moment seemed to wax more strong;
I loved and guessed at you, you construed me
And loved me for what might or might not be –
Nay, weights and measures do us both a wrong.
For verily love knows not ‘mine’ or ‘thine;’
With separate ‘I’ and ‘thou’ free love has done,
For one is both and both are one in love:
Rich love knows nought of ‘thine that is not mine;’
Both have the strength and both the length thereof,
Both of us, of the love which makes us one.

You, Therefore

You are like me, you will die too, but not today:   
you, incommensurate, therefore the hours shine:   
if I say to you “To you I say,” you have not been   
set to music, or broadcast live on the ghost   
radio, may never be an oil painting or
Old Master’s charcoal sketch: you are
a concordance of person, number, voice,
and place, strawberries spread through your name   
as if it were budding shrubs, how you remind me   
of some spring, the waters as cool and clear
(late rain clings to your leaves, shaken by light wind),   
which is where you occur in grassy moonlight:   
and you are a lily, an aster, white trillium
or viburnum, by all rights mine, white star   
in the meadow sky, the snow still arriving
from its earthwards journeys, here where there is   
no snow (I dreamed the snow was you,
when there was snow), you are my right,
have come to be my night (your body takes on   
the dimensions of sleep, the shape of sleep   
becomes you): and you fall from the sky
with several flowers, words spill from your mouth
in waves, your lips taste like the sea, salt-sweet (trees   
and seas have flown away, I call it
loving you): home is nowhere, therefore you,   
a kind of dwell and welcome, song after all,   
and free of any eden we can name

Poem to an Unnameable Man

You have changed me already. I am a fireball
That is hurtling towards the sky to where you are
You can choose not to look up but I am a giant orange ball
That is throwing sparks upon your face
Oh look at them shake
Upon you like a great planet that has been murdered by change
O too this is so dramatic this shaking
Of my great planet that is bigger than you thought it would be
So you ran and hid
Under a large tree. She was graceful, I think
That tree although soon she will wither
Into ten black snakes upon your throat
And when she does I will be wandering as I always am
A graceful lady that is part museum
Of the voices of the universe everyone else forgets
I will hold your voice in a little box
And when you come upon me I won’t look back at you
You will feel a hand upon your heart while I place your voice back
Into the heart from where it came from
And I will not cry also
Although you will expect me to
I was wiser too than you had expected
For I knew all along you were mine

Lines Depicting Simple Happiness

The shine on her buckle took precedence in sun
Her shine, I should say, could take me anywhere
It feels right to be up this close in tight wind
It feels right to notice all the shiny things about you
About you there is nothing I wouldn’t want to know
With you nothing is simple yet nothing is simpler
About you many good things come into relation
I think of proofs and grammar, vowel sounds, like
A is for knee socks, E for panties
I is for buttondown, O the blouse you wear
U is for hair clip, and Y your tight skirt
The music picks up again, I am the man I hope to be
The bright air hangs freely near your newly cut hair
It is so easy now to see gravity at work in your face
Easy to understand time, that dark process
To accept it as a beautiful process, your face

Flirtation

After all, there’s no need
to say anything

at first. An orange, peeled
and quartered, flares

like a tulip on a wedgewood plate
Anything can happen.

Outside the sun
has rolled up her rugs

and night strewn salt
across the sky. My heart

is humming a tune
I haven’t heard in years!

Quiet’s cool flesh—
let’s sniff and eat it.

There are ways
to make of the moment

a topiary
so the pleasure’s in

walking through.

[love is more thicker than forget]

love is more thicker than forget
more thinner than recall
more seldom than a wave is wet
more frequent than to fail

it is most mad and moonly
and less it shall unbe
than all the sea which only
is deeper than the sea

love is less always than to win
less never than alive
less bigger than the least begin
less littler than forgive

it is most sane and sunly
and more it cannot die
than all the sky which only
is higher than the sky

Vows 1

I promise that I will respect you as an individual, 
support you through difficult times, 
rejoice with you through happy times, 
be loyal to you always and, 
above all, 
love you as my wife/husband and friend. 
I promise to love and respect you, 
helping our love grow, 
always being there to listen, 
comfort and support you, 
whatever our lives may bring.

Vows 2

I join my life with yours. 
Wherever you go, I will go; 
whatever you face, 
I will face. 
For good or ill, 
in happiness or sadness, 
come riches or poverty, 
I take you as my husband/wife, 
and will give myself to no other

Vows 3

I promise to love you in good times and in bad, 
when life seems easy and when it seems hard, 
when our love is simple, 
and when it is an effort. 
I promise to cherish you, 
and to always hold you in highest regard. 
These things I give to you today, 
and all the days of our life

Vows 4

You are my inspiration and my soul’s fire.
You are the magic of my days.
You help me laugh, you teach me love.
You provide a safe place for me, unlike I’ve ever known.
You free me to sing my own song.
You are more of an amazement to me, each day I rediscover you.
You are my greatest boon.

I am yours.
You are mine.
Of this we are certain.
You are lodged in my heart.
The small key is lost.
You must stay there forever.

Vows 5

In your eyes, I have found my home.
In your heart, I have found my love.
In your soul, I have found my mate.
With you, I am whole, full, alive.
You make me laugh.
You let me cry.
You are my breath, my every heartbeat.

I am yours.
You are mine.
Of this we are certain.
You are lodged in my heart.
The small key is lost.
You must stay there forever.

Vows 6

from this day forward I promise to be worth it. 
Worth the time. 
Worth the trip. 
Worth the energy. 
Worth the embarrassment. 
Worth your love. 
I promise that you will always count. 
You will always come first, 
and of course, if you don’t for whatever reason, 
I will buy you some shoes. 
From the moment you entered my world, 
you have filled it with life, colour and energy like never before 
like kool-aid in a mud puddle 
or a cupcake in a salad 
or a rose garden in a junk yard. 
You are my rose, 
and I promise to devote my life to being your dirt.

Vows 7

Today, I take my place as your husband/wife. 
May our days be long, 
and may they be seasoned with faith, 
love, understanding, and respect, 
forever and ever. 
Today is the beginning of the rest of our lives. 
I choose to spend today, 
and all of my tomorrows, 
with you.

Vows 8

To be honest, 
I feel like the most blessed girl in the world. 
I have not only found my life-long companion, 
the lover of my heart, 
but my soul mate. 
Thank you for standing by me 
and sticking with me through thick and thin; 
for seeing the person that’s before you now. 
You believed in me when I didn’t even believe in myself 
and for that I love you so much

Vows 9

I promise you I will look after you and cherish you. 
I promise to do these things because I have been given you. 
The most amazing gift I could ever have. 
Know that I love you with all my heart. 
So I’m so happy and chuffed to call myself your wife!

Vows 10
As we start our married life together today, 
I make these promises before our families and friends:

I will continually challenge myself to become the best husband I can be; always looking to put you before myself and making your dreams our dreams.
I will love you; I will adore you; I will cherish you; I will be faithful to you.
I will be thoughtful and mindful in the way I act around other people, whether we are together or apart. I will always seek to give you no reason to be jealous over another person.
As much as music will always play an important part of my life, you come before my guitars! You will be the greatest song I could and would ever sing.
I will trust you in all things, never doubting you, or looking for reassurance of things you have already promised me.
I will help you discover your full potential, pushing you to become the best you can be, to support and ensure your hopes and dreams come to fruition.
I will stand by your side in all things, the highs and the lows, always finding agreement in everything that we do as husband and wife.

Vows 11

I promise to always remember that you are indeed human. 
That you may sometimes make questionable decisions, 
decisions I don’t agree with, 
like throwing a beach party that I didn’t authorize on the one free day we had before our wedding
a day when we should be doing wedding admin together and things 
like, I don’t know, writing our vows! 
But what I love about you is I know that you do these things 
because you care so deeply about those who are close to you 
and are genuinely one of the most thoughtful and considerate people I have ever known. 
You remind me of my mother in this way. 
(That and your mutual unbridled passion for shopping and [my parents’ dog].) 
Today, I promise to show that same care and consideration for you for the rest of my life. 
Right now, it’s the easiest thing in the world to do 
because I honestly love you so much and want nothing but your happiness, 
but even when things are difficult and it gets hard to do and our love gets more comfortable, complacent and timeworn, I will always show that same care and consideration for you.

Vows 12

you and I both know how indecisive I can be at times. 
I simply don’t like to make decisions. 
But if there is one decision in my life that I know is the right one, 
it’s to spend the rest of my life with you. 
There is an infinite number of things I love about you. 
I love your thoughtfulness and your ability to keep me grounded. 
I love your loyalty to me and our relationship. 
I love the way you weirdly get excited about water 
and I love how when you laugh really hard, your one eye starts to crinkle up. 
I promise to be patient with you.

Vows 13

I knew from the very moment I laid eyes on you that you were my forever. 
Someway, somehow, I was determined to make you mine. 
And from this day forward my heart is entirely yours....

As we continue to grow in our lives together, 
I promise to give you all of my words when needed, 
and to share in the silence when they are not, 
to pick you up if you are down, 
to love you unconditionally, 
to lay my bare skin on you when needed most, 
to care for you and our families for as long as we live, 
to adventure with you always, 
to say I love you before falling asleep each night, 
and to always know in the deepest part of my soul, 
that when challenges arise we will always find our way back to one another.

Vows 14

You are my best friend, my biggest supporter, and… the best backup singer a girl could ask for.
Although today marks the start to the rest of our lives, I know it will not be enough time with you.

I will not take our time together for granted. And because words cannot do it, I promise to show you, for the rest of my life, how much I love you.
I promise to encourage you to follow your dreams.
I promise to make you laugh when you are taking yourself too seriously.
I promise to hold your hand through the good times and through the bad times.
I promise to be loyal and faithful and to put you before all else.
I promise to never stop making up songs for you. Although, I know you wish I would.
And I promise that when we are old and gray, we will look back on our lives together and we have no regrets.
...From this day forward, you will never walk alone.

Vows 15

I promise to encourage your compassion,
Because that is what makes you unique and wonderful.
I promise to nurture your dreams,
Because through them your soul shines.
I promise to help shoulder our challenges,
For there is nothing we cannot face if we stand together.
I promise to be your partner in all things,
Not possessing you, but working with you as a part of the whole.
Lastly, I promise to you perfect love and perfect trust,
For one lifetime with you could never be enough.
This is my sacred vow to you, my equal in all things.

Vows 16

I take you to be my partner for life,
I promise above all else to live in truth with you
And to communicate fully and fearlessly,
I give you my hand and my heart
As a sanctuary of warmth and peace
And pledge my love, devotion, faith and honor
As I join my life to yours.

Vows 17

you are my best friend. 
I promise to laugh with you, 
cry with you, 
and grow with you. 
I will love you when we are together and when we are apart. 
I promise to support your dreams and to respect our differences, 
and to love you and be by your side 
through all the days and nights of our lives.

Vows 18

I choose you to be no other than yourself. 
Loving what I know of you, 
trusting what things I will discover. 
I will respect you as a person, a partner, and an equal. 
There is little to say that you haven’t already heard, 
and little to give that is not already freely given. 
Before you asked me, 
I was yours and I am devoted to you in every way. 
I marry you with no hesitation or doubt, and my commitment to you is absolute. 
Do you take me to be your lawfully wedded partner?

Vows 19

I love you unconditionally and without hesitation. 
I vow to love you, encourage you, trust you, and respect you. 
As a family, we will create a home filled with learning, laughter, and compassion. 
I promise to work with you to foster and cherish a relationship of equality 
knowing that together we will build a life far better than either of us could imagine alone. 
Today, I choose you to be my husband/wife/partner. 
I accept you as you are, and I offer myself in return. 
I will care for you, stand beside you, 
and share with you all of life’s adversities 
and all of its joys from this day forward, 
and all the days of my life.

Vows 20

Today, I promise you this: 
I will laugh with you in times of joy, 
and comfort you in times of sorrow. 
I will share in your dreams and support you as you strive to achieve your goals. 
I will listen to you with compassion and understanding, and speak to you with encouragement. 
Together, let us build a home filled with learning, laughter, and light, 
shared freely with all who may live there. Let us be partners, friends, and lovers, 
today and all of the days that follow.

Vows 21

I take you as you are, 
loving who you are now and who you are yet to become. 
I promise to listen to you and learn from you, to support you and accept your support. 
I will celebrate your triumphs and mourn your losses as though they were my own. 
I will love you and have faith in your love for me, 
through all our years and all that life may bring us.

Vows 22

I take you to be my spouse. 
I promise to choose you every day, 
to love you in word and deed, 
to do the hard work of making now into always. 
To laugh with you, cry with you, grow with you, 
and create with you. To honor the divinity in you, of you, 
and around you. To be your kin and your partner in all of life’s adventures. 
Loving what I know of you and trusting what I don’t yet know, I give you my hand. 
I give you my love. 
I give you myself. 
Will you give me yourself? 
Will you come travel with me?

Vows 23

You have taught me that two people joined together with respect, trust, and open communication can be far stronger
and happier than each could ever be alone. 
You are the strength I didn’t know I needed, 
the joy that I didn’t know I lacked. 
Today, I choose to spend the rest of my life with you.

I promise to love you for who you are, 
for who you are yet to become. 
I promise to be patient, 
to remember that all things between us are rooted in love. 
I promise to nurture your dreams and to help you reach them. 
I promise to share my whole heart with you, 
to remember to show you how deeply I care for you, 
no matter the challenges that may come our way. 
I promise to love you loyally and fiercely—as long as I shall live.

Vows 24

So what have I to offer you?
The promise to take you as my
only love from this day forward,
and to embark on a journey full
of adventure and wonder.
To stand by your side while
you face the world. To listen to
you when you speak.
To comfort you when you cry.
To join your laughter with my own.
To scratch your back where you
can't reach.
And to help you raise a kid
(or two). Please take this ring
and be my wife. Let's play.

Vows 25

You have made me feel more
loved than I ever thought possible.
Today, I give you all that I am,
and all that I have.
Just as I give you my hand to
hold today, I give you my heart,
my faith, my life.
I choose you today. And I
would choose you again tomorrow.
I would go on choosing you the day
after, and every day for the rest
of our lives. You are my once-in-a-
lifetime. I love you and I too will
always carry you in my heart.
*All vows have been edited for space.

Vows 26

I love that you open doors for
little old ladies.
I love that you would spend
your last five dollars just to see
somebody else happy.
I love that you have "blonde
moments"—like thinking Jamaica
is part of Hawaii. But more than
that, I love that you can laugh
at them afterwards.
I love that you're strong
and honorable, yet warm and
compassionate, loving and
accepting of all people.
But most of all, I love that you
and I both love each other so much.
I promise to stand by you, and
to be the president of your fan club.
I promise to never let anything
come between us, to fight for us,
to love you through good times
and challenging times, and to
always maintain a sense of humor
and adventure as we take our next
steps together into the unknown
and beautiful future.

Vows 27

I love you. You are my best friend. 
Today I give myself to you in marriage. 
I promise to encourage and inspire you, 
to laugh with you, 
to comfort you in times of sorrow and struggle. 
I promise to love you in good times and in bad, 
when life seems easy and when it seems hard, 
when our love is simple, 
and when it is an effort. 
I promise to cherish you and to always hold you in the highest regard. 
These things I give to you today, 
and all the days of our life.

