Poem for My Love

How do we come to be here next to each other   
in the night
Where are the stars that show us to our love   
inevitable
Outside the leaves flame usual in darkness   
and the rain
falls cool and blessed on the holy flesh   
the black men waiting on the corner for   
a womanly mirage
I am amazed by peace
It is this possibility of you
asleep
and breathing in the quiet air

I Love You

I love your lips when they’re wet with wine
And red with a wild desire;
I love your eyes when the lovelight lies
Lit with a passionate fire.
I love your arms when the warm white flesh
Touches mine in a fond embrace;
I love your hair when the strands enmesh
Your kisses against my face.

Not for me the cold, calm kiss
Of a virgin’s bloodless love;
Not for me the saint’s white bliss,
Nor the heart of a spotless dove.
But give me the love that so freely gives
And laughs at the whole world’s blame,
With your body so young and warm in my arms,
It sets my poor heart aflame.

So kiss me sweet with your warm wet mouth,
Still fragrant with ruby wine,
And say with a fervor born of the South
That your body and soul are mine.
Clasp me close in your warm young arms,
While the pale stars shine above,
And we’ll live our whole young lives away
In the joys of a living love.

Recitative

Every night, we couldn’t sleep.
Our upstairs neighbors had to keep
Dropping something down the hall—
A barbell or a bowling ball,

And from the window by the bed,
Echoing inside my head,
Alley cats expended breath
In arias of love and death.

Dawn again, across the street,
Jackhammers began to beat
Like hangovers, and you would frown—
That well-built house, why tear it down?

Noon, the radiator grill
Groaned, gave off a lesser chill
So that we could take off our coats.
The pipes coughed to clear their throats.

Our nerves were frayed like ravelled sleeves,
We cherished each our minor griefs
To keep them warm until the night,
When it was time again to fight;

But we were young, did not need much
To make us laugh instead, and touch,
And could not hear ourselves above
The arias of death and love.

I loved you first: but afterwards your love

I loved you first: but afterwards your love
Outsoaring mine, sang such a loftier song
As drowned the friendly cooings of my dove.
Which owes the other most? my love was long,
And yours one moment seemed to wax more strong;
I loved and guessed at you, you construed me
And loved me for what might or might not be –
Nay, weights and measures do us both a wrong.
For verily love knows not ‘mine’ or ‘thine;’
With separate ‘I’ and ‘thou’ free love has done,
For one is both and both are one in love:
Rich love knows nought of ‘thine that is not mine;’
Both have the strength and both the length thereof,
Both of us, of the love which makes us one.

Flirtation

After all, there’s no need
to say anything

at first. An orange, peeled
and quartered, flares

like a tulip on a wedgewood plate
Anything can happen.

Outside the sun
has rolled up her rugs

and night strewn salt
across the sky. My heart

is humming a tune
I haven’t heard in years!

Quiet’s cool flesh—
let’s sniff and eat it.

There are ways
to make of the moment

a topiary
so the pleasure’s in

walking through.

[love is more thicker than forget]

love is more thicker than forget
more thinner than recall
more seldom than a wave is wet
more frequent than to fail

it is most mad and moonly
and less it shall unbe
than all the sea which only
is deeper than the sea

love is less always than to win
less never than alive
less bigger than the least begin
less littler than forgive

it is most sane and sunly
and more it cannot die
than all the sky which only
is higher than the sky

Vows 1

I promise that I will respect you as an individual, 
support you through difficult times, 
rejoice with you through happy times, 
be loyal to you always and, 
above all, 
love you as my wife/husband and friend. 
I promise to love and respect you, 
helping our love grow, 
always being there to listen, 
comfort and support you, 
whatever our lives may bring.

Vows 2

I join my life with yours. 
Wherever you go, I will go; 
whatever you face, 
I will face. 
For good or ill, 
in happiness or sadness, 
come riches or poverty, 
I take you as my husband/wife, 
and will give myself to no other

Vows 3

I promise to love you in good times and in bad, 
when life seems easy and when it seems hard, 
when our love is simple, 
and when it is an effort. 
I promise to cherish you, 
and to always hold you in highest regard. 
These things I give to you today, 
and all the days of our life

Vows 4

You are my inspiration and my soul’s fire.
You are the magic of my days.
You help me laugh, you teach me love.
You provide a safe place for me, unlike I’ve ever known.
You free me to sing my own song.
You are more of an amazement to me, each day I rediscover you.
You are my greatest boon.

I am yours.
You are mine.
Of this we are certain.
You are lodged in my heart.
The small key is lost.
You must stay there forever.

Vows 5

In your eyes, I have found my home.
In your heart, I have found my love.
In your soul, I have found my mate.
With you, I am whole, full, alive.
You make me laugh.
You let me cry.
You are my breath, my every heartbeat.

I am yours.
You are mine.
Of this we are certain.
You are lodged in my heart.
The small key is lost.
You must stay there forever.

Vows 6

from this day forward I promise to be worth it. 
Worth the time. 
Worth the trip. 
Worth the energy. 
Worth the embarrassment. 
Worth your love. 
I promise that you will always count. 
You will always come first, 
and of course, if you don’t for whatever reason, 
I will buy you some shoes. 
From the moment you entered my world, 
you have filled it with life, colour and energy like never before 
like kool-aid in a mud puddle 
or a cupcake in a salad 
or a rose garden in a junk yard. 
You are my rose, 
and I promise to devote my life to being your dirt.

Vows 7

Today, I take my place as your husband/wife. 
May our days be long, 
and may they be seasoned with faith, 
love, understanding, and respect, 
forever and ever. 
Today is the beginning of the rest of our lives. 
I choose to spend today, 
and all of my tomorrows, 
with you.

Vows 8

To be honest, 
I feel like the most blessed girl in the world. 
I have not only found my life-long companion, 
the lover of my heart, 
but my soul mate. 
Thank you for standing by me 
and sticking with me through thick and thin; 
for seeing the person that’s before you now. 
You believed in me when I didn’t even believe in myself 
and for that I love you so much

Vows 9

I promise you I will look after you and cherish you. 
I promise to do these things because I have been given you. 
The most amazing gift I could ever have. 
Know that I love you with all my heart. 
So I’m so happy and chuffed to call myself your wife!

Vows 10
As we start our married life together today, 
I make these promises before our families and friends:

I will continually challenge myself to become the best husband I can be; always looking to put you before myself and making your dreams our dreams.
I will love you; I will adore you; I will cherish you; I will be faithful to you.
I will be thoughtful and mindful in the way I act around other people, whether we are together or apart. I will always seek to give you no reason to be jealous over another person.
As much as music will always play an important part of my life, you come before my guitars! You will be the greatest song I could and would ever sing.
I will trust you in all things, never doubting you, or looking for reassurance of things you have already promised me.
I will help you discover your full potential, pushing you to become the best you can be, to support and ensure your hopes and dreams come to fruition.
I will stand by your side in all things, the highs and the lows, always finding agreement in everything that we do as husband and wife.

Vows 11

I promise to always remember that you are indeed human. 
That you may sometimes make questionable decisions, 
decisions I don’t agree with, 
like throwing a beach party that I didn’t authorize on the one free day we had before our wedding
a day when we should be doing wedding admin together and things 
like, I don’t know, writing our vows! 
But what I love about you is I know that you do these things 
because you care so deeply about those who are close to you 
and are genuinely one of the most thoughtful and considerate people I have ever known. 
You remind me of my mother in this way. 
(That and your mutual unbridled passion for shopping and [my parents’ dog].) 
Today, I promise to show that same care and consideration for you for the rest of my life. 
Right now, it’s the easiest thing in the world to do 
because I honestly love you so much and want nothing but your happiness, 
but even when things are difficult and it gets hard to do and our love gets more comfortable, complacent and timeworn, I will always show that same care and consideration for you.

Vows 12

you and I both know how indecisive I can be at times. 
I simply don’t like to make decisions. 
But if there is one decision in my life that I know is the right one, 
it’s to spend the rest of my life with you. 
There is an infinite number of things I love about you. 
I love your thoughtfulness and your ability to keep me grounded. 
I love your loyalty to me and our relationship. 
I love the way you weirdly get excited about water 
and I love how when you laugh really hard, your one eye starts to crinkle up. 
I promise to be patient with you.

Vows 13

I knew from the very moment I laid eyes on you that you were my forever. 
Someway, somehow, I was determined to make you mine. 
And from this day forward my heart is entirely yours....

As we continue to grow in our lives together, 
I promise to give you all of my words when needed, 
and to share in the silence when they are not, 
to pick you up if you are down, 
to love you unconditionally, 
to lay my bare skin on you when needed most, 
to care for you and our families for as long as we live, 
to adventure with you always, 
to say I love you before falling asleep each night, 
and to always know in the deepest part of my soul, 
that when challenges arise we will always find our way back to one another.

Vows 14

You are my best friend, my biggest supporter, and… the best backup singer a girl could ask for.
Although today marks the start to the rest of our lives, I know it will not be enough time with you.

I will not take our time together for granted. And because words cannot do it, I promise to show you, for the rest of my life, how much I love you.
I promise to encourage you to follow your dreams.
I promise to make you laugh when you are taking yourself too seriously.
I promise to hold your hand through the good times and through the bad times.
I promise to be loyal and faithful and to put you before all else.
I promise to never stop making up songs for you. Although, I know you wish I would.
And I promise that when we are old and gray, we will look back on our lives together and we have no regrets.
...From this day forward, you will never walk alone.

Vows 15

I promise to encourage your compassion,
Because that is what makes you unique and wonderful.
I promise to nurture your dreams,
Because through them your soul shines.
I promise to help shoulder our challenges,
For there is nothing we cannot face if we stand together.
I promise to be your partner in all things,
Not possessing you, but working with you as a part of the whole.
Lastly, I promise to you perfect love and perfect trust,
For one lifetime with you could never be enough.
This is my sacred vow to you, my equal in all things.

Vows 16

I take you to be my partner for life,
I promise above all else to live in truth with you
And to communicate fully and fearlessly,
I give you my hand and my heart
As a sanctuary of warmth and peace
And pledge my love, devotion, faith and honor
As I join my life to yours.

Vows 17

you are my best friend. 
I promise to laugh with you, 
cry with you, 
and grow with you. 
I will love you when we are together and when we are apart. 
I promise to support your dreams and to respect our differences, 
and to love you and be by your side 
through all the days and nights of our lives.

Vows 18

I choose you to be no other than yourself. 
Loving what I know of you, 
trusting what things I will discover. 
I will respect you as a person, a partner, and an equal. 
There is little to say that you haven’t already heard, 
and little to give that is not already freely given. 
Before you asked me, 
I was yours and I am devoted to you in every way. 
I marry you with no hesitation or doubt, and my commitment to you is absolute. 
Do you take me to be your lawfully wedded partner?

Vows 19

I love you unconditionally and without hesitation. 
I vow to love you, encourage you, trust you, and respect you. 
As a family, we will create a home filled with learning, laughter, and compassion. 
I promise to work with you to foster and cherish a relationship of equality 
knowing that together we will build a life far better than either of us could imagine alone. 
Today, I choose you to be my husband/wife/partner. 
I accept you as you are, and I offer myself in return. 
I will care for you, stand beside you, 
and share with you all of life’s adversities 
and all of its joys from this day forward, 
and all the days of my life.

Vows 20

Today, I promise you this: 
I will laugh with you in times of joy, 
and comfort you in times of sorrow. 
I will share in your dreams and support you as you strive to achieve your goals. 
I will listen to you with compassion and understanding, and speak to you with encouragement. 
Together, let us build a home filled with learning, laughter, and light, 
shared freely with all who may live there. Let us be partners, friends, and lovers, 
today and all of the days that follow.

Vows 21

I take you as you are, 
loving who you are now and who you are yet to become. 
I promise to listen to you and learn from you, to support you and accept your support. 
I will celebrate your triumphs and mourn your losses as though they were my own. 
I will love you and have faith in your love for me, 
through all our years and all that life may bring us.

Vows 22

I take you to be my spouse. 
I promise to choose you every day, 
to love you in word and deed, 
to do the hard work of making now into always. 
To laugh with you, cry with you, grow with you, 
and create with you. To honor the divinity in you, of you, 
and around you. To be your kin and your partner in all of life’s adventures. 
Loving what I know of you and trusting what I don’t yet know, I give you my hand. 
I give you my love. 
I give you myself. 
Will you give me yourself? 
Will you come travel with me?

Vows 23

You have taught me that two people joined together with respect, trust, and open communication can be far stronger
and happier than each could ever be alone. 
You are the strength I didn’t know I needed, 
the joy that I didn’t know I lacked. 
Today, I choose to spend the rest of my life with you.

I promise to love you for who you are, 
for who you are yet to become. 
I promise to be patient, 
to remember that all things between us are rooted in love. 
I promise to nurture your dreams and to help you reach them. 
I promise to share my whole heart with you, 
to remember to show you how deeply I care for you, 
no matter the challenges that may come our way. 
I promise to love you loyally and fiercely—as long as I shall live.

Vows 24

So what have I to offer you?
The promise to take you as my
only love from this day forward,
and to embark on a journey full
of adventure and wonder.
To stand by your side while
you face the world. To listen to
you when you speak.
To comfort you when you cry.
To join your laughter with my own.
To scratch your back where you
can't reach.
And to help you raise a kid
(or two). Please take this ring
and be my wife. Let's play.

Vows 25

You have made me feel more
loved than I ever thought possible.
Today, I give you all that I am,
and all that I have.
Just as I give you my hand to
hold today, I give you my heart,
my faith, my life.
I choose you today. And I
would choose you again tomorrow.
I would go on choosing you the day
after, and every day for the rest
of our lives. You are my once-in-a-
lifetime. I love you and I too will
always carry you in my heart.
*All vows have been edited for space.

Vows 26

I love that you open doors for
little old ladies.
I love that you would spend
your last five dollars just to see
somebody else happy.
I love that you have blonde
moments—like thinking Jamaica
is part of Hawaii. But more than
that, I love that you can laugh
at them afterwards.
I love that you're strong
and honorable, yet warm and
compassionate, loving and
accepting of all people.
But most of all, I love that you
and I both love each other so much.
I promise to stand by you, and
to be the president of your fan club.
I promise to never let anything
come between us, to fight for us,
to love you through good times
and challenging times, and to
always maintain a sense of humor
and adventure as we take our next
steps together into the unknown
and beautiful future.

Vows 27

I love you. You are my best friend. 
Today I give myself to you in marriage. 
I promise to encourage and inspire you, 
to laugh with you, 
to comfort you in times of sorrow and struggle. 
I promise to love you in good times and in bad, 
when life seems easy and when it seems hard, 
when our love is simple, 
and when it is an effort. 
I promise to cherish you and to always hold you in the highest regard. 
These things I give to you today, 
and all the days of our life.

I promise to hold your hand every night
 to never let us lose our spark.

I vow to have the patience that love demands, 
to speak when words are needed, 
and to share in the silence when they are not.

I vow to be giving and forgiving; 
to make you laugh and to laugh at myself.

You are my guide to love, 
my every wish, 
and the person I want to grow old with.

You’re my person. 
You just are.

I promise to love you, 
to be your hearth, 
to keep a flame alive for you in my heart.

When you walked into my life, 
love walked in, too.

Together you and I will make one, one world, 
one universe of love, 
ever growing, ever expanding—perpetually and inexorably.

I promise to grow with you 
and build with you a better life each day 
as we learn from each other to be patient, 
kind, giving, and to always cherish each day together.

I vow to love you as you love me, 
through all hardship, darkness, 
and pain to reach for our joys, 
our hopes, 
and always with honesty and faith.

I promise you my unconditional love, 
tenderness, and undying devotion, 
to not ask you to be more than you are, 
and to love you for being you.

I vow to be as much of a rock for you as you have been for me.

I promise to be here to wipe away tears of sadness, 
to elicit tears of joy, 
and to cry out to everyone who will listen how much I love you.

I love you. 
You are my best friend. 
Today I give myself to you in marriage. 
I promise to encourage and inspire you, 
to laugh with you, 
and to comfort you in times of sorrow and struggle. 
I promise to love you in good times and in bad, 
when life seems easy and when it seems hard, 
when our love is simple, 
and when it is an effort. 
I promise to cherish you and to always hold you in the highest regard. 
These things I give to you today, and all the days of our life.

I promise to love you, 
to be your best friend, 
to respect and support you, 
to be patient with you, 
to work together with you to achieve our goals, 
to accept you unconditionally, 
and to share life with you throughout the years.

I promise to encourage your compassion,
Because that is what makes you unique and wonderful.
I promise to nurture your dreams,
Because through them your soul shines.
I promise to help shoulder our challenges,
For there is nothing we cannot face if we stand together.
I promise to be your partner in all things,
Not possessing you, but working with you as a part of the whole.
Lastly, I promise you perfect love and perfect trust,
For one lifetime with you could never be enough.
This is my sacred vow to you, my equal in all things.